Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Come see!
I heard meowing
and found them back here.
Where'd they come from?
She got herself knocked up. the whore.
Their eyes are closed.
are they blind?
No. dummy. they're just newborns.
Shoo!
Madam Prioress.
Please!
"Dear Mother. do you ever imagine me?
My name is Cecilia.
Do you like that name?
What would you have called me?"
Venice 1716
Orphanage della Pietà
"Would you be able to recognize me
among all these similar girls?
And if I were to meet you.
would I recognize you?
Do I resemble you perhaps?
In my face. it's yours I seek."
Too fast.
What are you playing?
- A Kyrie. Don Giulio.
- Very good. Laura.
Why are the rest of you playing it
as if it were an Alleluia?
Slower.
It says "adagio."
Every Sunday
we play behind a grill.
so that no one can see our faces.
To the world.
we are a shadow. a dream.
They come to listen to us
in order to fantasize.
picturing faces that don't exist."
Here we've been taught
how to read. write and play music.
You mothers who left
their daughters here. gave us a gift.
You gave us
the instruments to curse you.
Caterina. Laura. Costanza. Agnese.
Madam Prioress.
I don't want to quit playing.
We'll see. Laura.
I'll speak with the governor.
For now. you can stay.
The rest of you. hurry up.
Do I have anything in my teeth?
No. you look beautiful.
Try not to limp.
With the coming freeze.
the whole lagoon could ice over.
Can you imagine?
Everyone skating on the Grand Canal!
Here are our maidens.
Come in.
Our best pupils.
We are not happy to lose them.
Happy smiles.
They don't bite. Right?
Are they all so timid?
They are never barefaced
in front of a man.
They are God-fearing.
trained in obedience. educated.
Other institutions
don't have girls like ours.
You can judge for yourself.
They are: Agnese. violist.
Costanza. cellist.
and Caterina. organist and singer.
She has the voice of an angel.
- May I hear her sing?
- Of course.
- Shall I sing?
- Yes.
That's enough.
Thank you. Caterina.
What is her dowry?
100 ducats.
She's one of our most talented
daughters of the choir.
Then I'll double
my donation to your institution.
I'm a widower.
I have two daughters your age.
they'll keep you company.
Would you like to be my wife?
"When Venice triumphs
in the war against the Turks.
I'm to marry a wealthy officer.
dearest Mother.
It's already decided.
Upon marrying.
I'll have to give up playing.
That's another rule in here.
Everything in here
revolves around money:
the Sunday concerts.
the nobles' donations.
Our marriages."
"Dear Mother.
I won't follow your example.
I won't abandon my children
as if they were trash to be discarded.
How did you become my mother?
Were you tricked by a man
who promised to marry you
and then ran away?
Did you succumb to love or a whim?
Or maybe it was the assault
of a violent man?
Don't fool yourself.
that's not enough
to earn my forgiveness.
Nothing will ever be enough."
Great progress!
Caterina is making you
into an extraordinary musician.
But I'm just a bored rich lady
who wants to impress after dinner.
That's enough for today. dear.
I didn't see your family
at the concert on Sunday.
No. we were at the Derelitti.
That Nicolò Porpora...
What an extraordinary musician.
- Do you know of him?
- I've heard talk.
I assumed.
You'll hear even more.
Speaking of which.
may I have a word?
Just the two of us.
For the tuner: 18 ducats.
The Parolin family. as of now.
will make all of their donations
to the Derelitti.
Apparently. their orchestra
has a more interesting musical offering.
You know how these things go.
the Contarinis. Mocenigos.
and Giustinians will all follow suit.
Who says our musical offering
doesn't measure up?
The church was nearly full on Sunday.
The Derelitti is full every Sunday.
with people crowding the entrance.
- We must speak with Don Giulio.
- You want to send him away?
- We'll take a vote.
- And hire whom?
One second.
It's not easy to find a replacement
so spur of the moment.
All the best are already taken.
May I?
You know who'd like to return here?
Don Antonio.
Vivaldi?
Things didn't go as he'd hoped.
He wasn't accepted into any court.
and his work as an impresario
didn't yield him anything.
He's so desperate that. in my opinion.
he'd accept even a pittance.
Let's not be hasty. Don Giulio
has been here over three years.
Evidently. his time has run its course.
Let's hire Vivaldi.
We'll offer him
half the pay of Don Giulio
and also have him compose
psalms for the girls
and concerts for Sundays.
Don Antonio. what a pleasure
to see you again.
Welcome back.
Copy it and memorize it.
Go get the paper.
Cecilia.
I can. right?
I can bring her home.
I kept it as my most precious possession.
Wait here.
Go call her.
What are you doing?
This is your daughter.
Angelica. she is your mother.
Look.
When she brought you here.
she left this half
to return and claim you.
Go.
Mama.
"Dear Mother. did you also
leave half a memento
when you abandoned me?
That's all I'd like to know."
The maestro wants
to understand your level.
let's not make a bad impression.
Let's try these variations.
Pay careful attention to the cadence.
We have a first violin.
- Me?
- But Don Antonio...
I have to finish composing
Sunday's concert.
I'm still not sure of some parts.
but you keep practicing.
I'm not a first violin.
I can't be.
What's your name?
Cecilia.
You should be in there
with all your companions.
It's pointless to invest in me.
When the war's over.
I'll marry an officer
and I won't be able to play anymore.
You know the rules.
Who knows how long
the war will last.
Do you know?
You mocked me
when you stopped playing.
And you just pretended to play off-key.
that's why I chose you.
I don't understand.
There are musicians
much better than you.
but you have something
the others don't have.
What?
You don't play for the praise.
I think the maestro
has fallen in love with Cecilia.
Nonsense!
Then why did he choose you and not Laura?
How should I know?
I didn't even want it.
Yeah. right.
I bet you're disappointed.
- You'll be leaving soon anyway.
- Enough!
We're not focusing enough on Caterina.
she's leaving soon.
Caterina. you're not going
to say anything?
- What should I say?
- A farewell speech to your sisters.
You can't imagine how gross it was.
Today the surgeon opened my legs
and looked inside.
What was he looking for?
You're so clueless.
It's to check
if a girl is a virgin.
Like Mary?
The man takes his thingy
and shoves it in there.
And afterwards.
you're no longer a virgin.
No one will marry you anymore.
- Why not?
- Because that's how it is.
Last summer. with Alvise.
I was very careful.
Who is Alvise?
When I had consumption
they sent me to Torcello.
A farmer. a handsome fellow.
with shoulders this wide
and a huge cock!
But I didn't let him shove it in there.
No. I'm sorry.
our entire worth is in there.
So. the first night...
The first night. he'll put it in there.
- That's what married people do.
- And what do I have to do?
Nothing. darling.
Just open your legs.
like with the surgeon.
Just that and some big sighs.
Even if it hurts. pretend you like it.
so it'll be over sooner.
More impetus!
I'm falling asleep!
Who's there?
What the devil
are you doing here? Let's go!
Did my mother leave a memento
to return and claim me?
Move.
Come with me.
What is it?
A compass rose.
This area is full of sailors' hangouts.
She's a prostitute?
It means she didn't die in childbirth.
You can keep it.
What if she comes back?
Do you want to know the best way
to heal this wound?
Be a good mother yourself.
Soon you'll have your own family.
you won't think of her any longer.
Put it back where it was.
The worst anguish befalls
those who dream of the impossible.
What're you doing? Crying?
No.
It's the soap.
It's not good to go out
if you're so upset afterwards.
It's better to never go out.
Why get a taste of life
if you have to come back here?
A triumph.
You should've seen their faces.
enraptured.
Even Countess Foscarini was crying.
the most barren heart in Venice.
And there's even better news:
the King of Denmark is in town.
He's incognito. but heaven knows
this city can't keep a secret.
Guess who wants to come hear you.
Porpora?
Don't be silly.
You're too humble.
Then I'll compose a sonata for him.
Right. excellent.
By the way. I need more
instruments in the orchestra:
bassoons.
horns.
some percussions and a chalumeau.
Something else?
Just concentrate on impressing the king.
I'm certain
you'll compose an unforgettable sonata.
More impetus.
More what?
the maestro always says it.
Meaning what?
- Force.
- More force?
Yes.
No. it's not a question of muscles.
- It's more...
- More passion?
That feeling of being drawn
towards someone you're in love with.
when your insides
are in complete turmoil.
when you're close to him
and you feel a chaos rising
right here...
This isn't a grammar lesson.
Sorry. I forget you have
no way of knowing certain things.
From the beginning.
Are you the girl set
to wed Andrea Sanfermo?
Do you know him?
He's my cousin.
You couldn't ask for better.
It's just that...
You're pretty. but you should
take better care of yourself.
You're dull.
I know everything's forbidden in here.
but this will be our secret.
You'll see after.
A little bit of shine.
Relax your lips.
That's it!
This is for you.
Don't get caught.
Pretty.
Sorry. I didn't see you coming.
Are you hurt?
I'm so lucky you bumped into me.
Wait.
What's on your face?
It becomes you.
Get this filth off my face!
He's handsome.
- Who?
- Michele. the greengrocer.
You take it.
I've got no use for it.
Cecilia.
Do you know why I became a priest?
For my mother.
When I was born. I was dying
because of this disease
that gives me no respite.
so she made a vow.
That if you didn't die.
you'd become a priest?
In essence. she sold me to Him.
I can't run. I can't dance.
I can't sing.
I can't experience intense emotions.
You're in the right place.
And I can't give Mass.
Nobles pay up to 80 ducats
for a Suffrage Mass.
- That's why you're sorry?
- I'm not from a rich family.
Why do you come here?
What are you hiding down there?
It was my refuge.
but now that you've discovered it
I'll have to find another.
I promise. I'll never come again.
Thank you.
Today they told me we're going to play
for the King of Denmark.
- I wrote a sonata for him.
- In a single afternoon?
Yes.
You don't believe me?
I think you had it ready.
Do you really think that
about my music?
What could I possibly say?
Everybody likes it.
I want to make music that exalts.
that stuns.
that is like life itself.
But. up to now.
all my concerts have been feeble.
Instead. you like...
the praise.
Study it.
Get in line. it's your turn now.
The famous Vivaldi!
Now I understand why
all of Venice is talking about you.
Your Majesty. I'm honored.
With your permission.
I composed this for you.
Very well.
But rather. tell me.
who is this enchanting musician?
What is her name?
Cecilia.
May I see her face?
No. it's not possible.
I don't believe I understand.
But of course!
I'm certain that for you
we can make an exception.
Come. Cecilia.
Come. darling.
the king wants to meet you.
Come closer.
Will you allow me?
Cecilia.
you're marvelous.
Aren't you happy?
All of Venice applauded you.
It's best we don't know there's
another way of being in the world.
if we can't live it.
What does that mean?
That you're destroying our peace.
And. in fact. you're playing better.
You have to know
what you are playing.
Your instrument is made
of a felled tree. like this one.
that. until not so long ago.
was a beautiful mountain spruce.
This is unique wood.
it transmits sound well. it's flexible.
In a short period of time.
it'll become a splendid violin
thanks to the work of this man.
the best luthier in Venice.
Come here. Cecilia.
For the body of the instrument.
use the length of her arm.
The war is over.
Andrea Sanfermo has written.
He'll arrive in town next week.
He's chosen St. Jeremiah's Church
for the wedding ceremony.
I no longer want to get married.
I want to stay here.
to play.
You allowed Laura to do so.
Laura? What's she got to do with it?
The agreement has already been made.
I'll be more useful
as a musician than as a wife.
How. exactly?
Sanfermo paid a large sum: 300 ducats.
Can we earn that with your concerts?
Think how many orphans
we can feed with that money!
Among other things.
If it's only a matter of money.
then I can get it for you.
How?
Don Antonio.
He can pay it.
Why should he?
To keep me in the orchestra.
You're overestimating your talent.
Sanfermo is a brave
fighter for the Republic
and one of the biggest
benefactors of this institution.
we can't go back on our word.
At least speak with Don Antonio.
I'm in charge here!
Go get ready.
Don Antonio.
Great news.
the doge has commissioned you
for an oratorio
to commemorate the victory.
The Council of Ten will also be there.
it'll be an unforgettable evening.
- I'll get right to work.
- Magnificent.
But there's something else.
Cecilia.
What has she done?
Today she was ranting
about the possibility
of you paying a sum to keep her here.
She said that?
For goodness' sake. I'm a worldly man.
I know the relationship that can develop
between a teacher and his pupil.
but the city is full of vicious gossips.
if the girl goes around saying these
things. everyone will think badly.
Just imagine if word spread
that you. a priest.
had obstructed the marriage of an orphan
to keep her with you.
One must be careful.
all of our livelihoods
depend on our reputation.
But Cecilia is talented. very talented.
- You know it too.
- All our girls are talented.
And since your arrival.
they're all making great strides.
One leaves. another arrives.
There's no shortage
of orphans in this city.
Let's be honest.
this marriage is very convenient for us.
but also for you.
For me?
The instruments you asked for.
consider them already in hand
to write the oratorio.
With your permission.
"Dear Mother. we played
for a man at death's door.
It was his dying wish.
But I can't say with certainty
if it was us playing for him
or him dying for us.
In exchange. he's donating a portion
of his estate to the institution.
We played for money. in short.
It's always a question of money.
Of death and of money.
Music. death and money.
This is my last day
as a musician."
You promised you wouldn't
come here anymore.
I wanted to bring you this.
Why are you giving it to me?
I won't be able to play anymore.
you know that.
Music is over for me.
Then let's celebrate this ending.
Play the piece from the baptism.
It was tomfoolery.
The purpose of music
isn't to imitate the sounds of the world.
Yes. you're right.
music doesn't have a purpose.
but it can do it all.
- All of what?
- Everything.
It can tell us
of the sudden arrival
of a thunderstorm.
of thunder. lightening
that makes the swallows fly away.
Are you lacking inspiration?
Or a shepherd asleep. lying on the grass.
Or a barking dog.
Men and women
who dance during a party.
I've never danced at a party.
And neither have you.
So how can we play it
if we don't know?
We can invent it.
Why do you torture me like this?
Seeing your talent wasted.
that is torture.
Enough!
I can't do anything.
I can't decide anything.
But you can.
You could've done something
but instead you stayed quiet.
You're a coward.
What could I have done?
You can't ask me
to change your life.
Give it to Laura.
She deserves it.
Was the journey long?
After the siege of Corfu.
the concept of long must be redefined.
And you?
You've changed.
You're different from the portrait
I had you sit for.
Many things have happened
these past months.
What could've possibly
happened to you shut away in here?
You think things only happen
to those who go to war?
I was joking.
Nothing ever happens here.
Tell me about you.
about your glorious adventures.
I know you were given a medal.
A medal?
Yes.
The Doge's Grand Cross. yes.
What an honor that must be.
How could I ever measure up
to a man such as yourself?
I'll take care of you.
I'll teach you everything.
Good.
Let's not keep the surgeon waiting.
Gently.
Walk!
Shameless hussy!
Nothing but a hussy!
I'd kill you with my own two hands!
What a disgrace! You're crazy!
You're crazy!
I'll show you!
Walk!
Let's cover this up
before word gets out!
It's already too late.
We'll give hush money to the surgeon!
Woe if anyone
reveals what's happened!
Happy now?
If I find out it's your fault.
this time we'll get rid of you for good.
The marriage is out the window.
our reputation as well.
Let's find another girl for Sanfermo.
and try to recoup the money.
I locked her in the cell
as you ordered.
Let her rot in there
for at least a year!
She can forget about playing!
Bread and water.
Apparently. that's all you deserve.
Was it him. the maestro?
- Who did what?
- Took your virginity.
They're blaming him?
Everyone knows he'd have
heart failure just touching a girl.
This is from him.
He told the governor
you're of no use in here.
that you have to return
to the orchestra.
How he yelled!
- Really?
- Couldn't you hear him from here?
He stood his ground
and said he would leave otherwise.
You're free!
I mean. free...
Will you tell me who it was?
The greengrocer.
Michele.
- What did you get out of it?
- I don't have to wed.
Now you're in a prison
within another prison.
But I can go back to playing.
With a mask on your face.
interred inside here for life.
while he takes all the credit.
- It's not like that.
- Yes. it is.
I wish I'd had the damn luck
to be marrying a rich man.
Keep on playing.
C'mon. go ahead.
The lesson starts soon.
you don't even have time
to wash and clean up.
So be it.
What's going on?
Come in. Cecilia.
Officer Sanfermo wanted to say farewell.
Tomorrow he's going to marry
your companion. Costanza.
Cecilia.
I fought the Turks
to save the Republic.
an entire year away from home
with little hope of returning.
Do you think I did all that
just to be humiliated by a little girl?
I didn't want to humiliate you.
I've got nothing against you.
but marrying you
meant giving up music.
Right. music.
"Where there's music
there can be no evil."
Have you read Don Quixote?
- No.
- Me neither.
I'm a military man.
not an artist like you.
Everyone says
you're so talented. so gifted.
I'd like to hear you play.
I know that soon you'll celebrate
our victory with an oratorio.
- Of course.
- What an honor.
I can't wait to hear your talent.
And to discover
the magic these hands are capable of.
when holding a violin.
At the next concert!
Can you move your fingers?
You'll get better.
don't worry.
We have many new instruments.
wind. percussion.
You can play one of those.
The governor says
you fell down the stairs.
We should report him.
he must pay!
Did you become brave overnight?
Here Judith decides
to sacrifice her honor
for the freedom of her people.
She offers herself
to the enemies' leader. Holofernes.
Actually. she's there to cut off
his head. but he doesn't know.
When he sees her.
he can't believe his eyes.
Holofernes is
a bloodthirsty captain. Anita.
He carouses.
he gets drunk and has
a new woman every night. Anita!
May I speak with you?
Yes. of course.
Continue.
How are rehearsals going?
We are quite the army
with our new instruments.
What is it?
I wanted to ask you a favor.
I'd like to attend the concert.
It's important to me.
Sanfermo will be in the audience.
I will be in the side choir stall.
no one will see me.
You could ask the prioress
to make an exception.
Absolutely.
Thank you.
It'll be nice to know you're so close by.
That's enough.
Where do you think you're going?
The keys.
- No.
- Give me the keys.
Quiet. Come with me.
Go. This way you won't risk
encountering anyone.
Go and don't turn back.
"Dear Mother. this is the last time
I'll write to you.
If you ever come looking for me.
you'll find my letters. but not me.
I've lost everything.
but I have what I need.
I'm free to create my own life.
Thousands of illegitimate
or poor foundling girls
lived at the Orphanage della Pietà
over 600 years.
The most talented were trained in music.
forming an orchestra acclaimed in Europe.
Vivaldi taught at La Pietà for 40 years.
He died destitute
and was buried in a common grave.
His talent was rediscovered
when his sheet music was found
200 years after his death.
He composed The Four Seasons
during the years in which
this story is set.
Translation "Carrie Curtis"
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org